I have a Dell Opitplex 7010 with 16 GB RAM where most of my current lab work is occuring the goal of this lab is to get a better 
understanding of an enterprise system and how to administer it correctly. To do this I am working my way through Paul Hill's course 
on active directory and group policy (https://www.udemy.com/course/active-directory-group-policy-2012/). As well as some other 
tutorial courses I've used to make my lab feel proper. A lot of what I am doing is basing my learning off of his course, but if I 
have any "I wonder if I can...." I take time away from the course to investigate how and if I can do it. 
I am primarily interested in learning things in whatever direction my brain goes in, and while this might be a slower way to master 
any one thing, I'd rather learn basics while I'm curious, because foundational knowledge is always good to have. Its something I see 
lacking in my own knowledge and the knowledge of people around me in my job.
My biggest goal from this is to be able to walk away from this feeling like I am better equiped to perform my job, and to be able to 
have valuable skills for my current and future employers. The other thing I am looking to do is to pursue things that seem fun so I 
can find out if I really like it or not. 


Running Notes of the creation of my virtual lab. 

2021-09-13
1. I reimaged my Dell Optiplex 7010 with a fresh install of Ubuntu 20.04 (LTS with Desktop)
2. Once the imaging was completed I made sure that things were up to date.
  A. sudo apt update
  B. sudo apt upgrade
3. Installed virtual box
  A. sudo apt install virtualbox virtualbox-ext-pack
4. Utilized some reference material to get a basic system set up complete with router, domain controller, and domain client built 
   inside of virutal box.
  A. Reference Material: https://securitytutorials.co.uk/creating-an-active-directory-home-lab/
  B. Downloaded PFSense ISO from the offical PFSense download page 
      1. Source: https://www.pfsense.org/download/
  C. Created a VM for my PFSense router
      1. Used a Bridged adapter, 512 MB RAM 10 GB VDI HDD. 
  D. Created a VM with the Windows 2016 Data Center Edition for Evaluation.
      1. This is a free version for evalutation and learning from Microsoft. 
        a. Source: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/evalcenter/evaluate-windows-server-2016
      2. Named virtual machine domainctl-01 in Virtualbox. 
      3. Named the virtual computer the same thing. 
      4. I set my static IP up and recorded the scheme in the notes. 
      5. I created a snapshot in virtualbox of this so we can step back to this configuration if needed. 
        a. Name: FreshInstallConfig
      6. Installed Domain Controller, DNS Server, and DHCP Server this virtual machine. 
      7. Promoted this server to be the Domain Controller. 
        a. I added a new forest and named it domain.local. 
        b. I set the Directory Service Restore Mode password. 
        c. Set the NetBIOS name as "DOMAIN"
        d. I left the database, log files and SYSVOL at their defaults which are listed respectively below. 
          - c:\windows\NTDS
          - c:\windows\NTDS
          - c:\windows\SYSVOL
        e. I saved the powershell script generated to the desktop of the domain controller (ADDSDeployment.txt) for future 
           reference.
  E. Configured DHCP server on domainctl-01
      1. On the Dashboard home I opened DHCP options I created a new scope under ipv4. 
        a. I set the range and recorded it in my notes. 
        b. I set the subnet and recorded it in my notes. 
        c. I left the lease duration at 8 days, which is the default setting. 
        d. I left the Domain Name and DNS Servers with the default setting. 
        e. I left the WINS server as Default also.
      2. I activated the scope. 
  F. Creation of a client PC to join to the Domain. 
      1. I downloaded a virtual box image for Windows 10 Enterprise Evaluation. 
        a. Source: https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/downloads/virtual-machines/
      2. I had to install Zip Unzip on my Dell 7010 to be able to extract the OVA from the zipped file that downloads from    
         Microsoft's page
        a. I extracted the OVA file in virtualbox, once extracted I named this machine "client001". 
        b. Once the OVA was loaded, and before I booted it I created a snapshot of the device for a backup. 
2021-09-14
  G. Joining my new client to the domain. 
      1. To join to the domain I went to Start > Settings > About > Advanced Settings > Computer Name and selected the "change".
      2. Named the computer "client001"
      3. Joined the domain "domain.local"
      4. Used my domain administrator credentials to join the domain, and restarted the machine. 
5. Creation of OU's to organize my domain better. 
    A. Created an OU named Domain OU and several OU's within that. 
      1. Domain Users - This will hold the user accounts within the domain. 
        a. Domain Admins - this will be for administrative accounts. 
        b. Domain Users - this will be for end user accounts. 
        c. Innactive Users - rather than deleteing users it seems most organizations I am aware disable user accounts who are no 
           longer in the organization so I created this to better simulate an enterprise environment. 
      2. Domain Computers - This will hold computers joined to the domain. 
        a. Servers - for Domain Servers. 
        b. Clients - for Domain Client PCs and workstations. 
    C. Created Domain users to test. 
      1. Created a user under the "Domain Admins" OU.
      2. Created a user under the "Domain Users" OU. 
      3. Currently these will function identically as there are no policies to diferentiate them. 
      4. Tested both of these logins on client001 to verify that they were able to login. 
        a. As a further test I verified I could disable the accounts and they would stop working. 
6. I checked for updates on sandbox-01 (see step 2 for the commands I ran). 
2021-09-16
As a note most of what happened here was a bust I was looking to see if I could virtualize rasbian on virtual box. I think I can but
the file format was not working when I mounted the file to the disk in virtual box it was an unfamiliar format so I am thinking that
I just need to research it more. After that did not pan out I was able to image an Ubuntu server 20.04 image, but I never got to a 
login screen (I later found out I probably just needed to hit Enter on my keyboard). For this day both of those ideas got scrapped. 
2021-09-18
7. I realized I had a growing number of username and passwords and I would need a more secure way of keeping track of them that was
not rogue memorization. I installed BitWarden on my sandbox-01 computer to act as a password vault. I realize that this would likely
not be an enterprise level solution. For the moment this seems to me to be a decent way to keep track of the different passwords I 
am using and I should look into seeing if there are evaluation versions of enterprise level software in the future to get used to 
them as well. 
8. Setting a group policy to demonstrate the difference between my Domain Admin accounts and my Domain User accounts. 
    A. Created 2 very basic desktop backgrounds that would allow me to distinguish between desktop users and desktop admins. 
      1. DomainAdminDesktopBackground.png
      2. DomainUserDesktopBackground.png
      3. Created a folder on my DC for deploying Domain Assets C:\DomainAssets
      4. Within this folder I created a DomainBackgrounds folder. 
      5. File share config. 
        a. I went to the folder properties > sharing > advanced sharing. I selected "share this folder" then went to permissions. 
        b. I removed the "Everyone" group and added "Authenticated Users" and ensured they had read access.
        c. I recorded my network path in my notes. 
        d. I verified this was accessible from my domain client pc on both my admin and enduser account. 
    B. Created a Group Policy Object in my Domain Admins OU named "AdminDesktopBackground"
       1. added policy under User Configuration > Administrative Templates > Desktop > Desktop > Desktop Wallpaper. 
       2. set this to Enabled, and set the file path (via the network location) to the location for the bacground. 
       3. Used the same steps to set mydomain user background named the policy "UserDesktopBackground"
       4. Ran gpupdate /force and after this I was able to test both the user and the admin account and I verified they were able
          to see their correct background. 
       5. Upon seeing them I went back and altered the setting for the image display to "fill" from the default "center" as it worked
          better with the resolutions of the VM to the resolution of the image. 
 9. At this point I took snapshots of all my VM's for backups. 
 10. The next step I took was to attempt to push software to my VM. The example in the Paul Hill course was with 7zip, but I have 
     been able to push that in the past when I was working on this course prior to this current itteration of the lab. I opted this
     time to try pushing PuTTY, as one of the next VM's I plan to add is a linux server to run PiHole. For a reason I still can't 
     explain the installation of PuTTY was not able to complete on my attempts to get it to work. I would like to come back to
     this and try again at a later date. My goal here is not to beat my head against things like work, but to be able to shift 
     when it makes sense, or if I need to keep myself interested and the current topic is getting a bit stale. 
     I think my long term solution here is to get SCCM going and see if I can better manage client installs from here, but that 
     will be for another day. 
     As a solution for today I was able to install the program manually from the file share that was already set up for the 
     installer. 
 11. From here I was able to create an Ubuntu server 20.04 (LTS) VM to begin the pihole work. I documented my name and was able 
     to set a Static IP in the /etc/netplan/00-installer-config.yaml file. I was careful to use an IP in my reserved range so as
     not to cause an issue with my DHCP range, but far enough away from my Domain Controller to allow room for additional Windows
     based servers. 
 20210921
 12. Maintenance
       A. Checked to be sure that all my VMs and my sandbox-01 server are up to date. 
          1. PFSense router option 13 on the VM allowed me to verify it was up to date. 
          2. Domain Controller had updates to install:
            a. KB2267602
            b. KB5005573
            c. KB4589210
            d. KB4535680
          3. pihole server 
          4. client001
          5. client002
  20210926
  13. This week has been very busy in work and personally my main focus this week has been organizing my physical machines in a way
      that My fiance does not hate. I reorganized my basement lab area so it was not a cluttered mess of work, fun, and lab 
      equipment. I reorganized my basement area where my computers are mostly concentrated. This is part of my goal to organize 
      harden and optimize my home network. I should be receiving a KVM switch from amazon shortly which will allow me to run my 
      computers through a single monitor. 
      I also realized this week that I still have my old gaming rig and while it won't do for gaming it will 100% do really well for
      having a second lab stood up. I think I may experiment with running proxmox. I'd like to make it a goal after I finish the 
      UDemy Course on Active Directory. 
  20211107
  14. Over the past month I've been getting married and adjusting to married life. I am currently working to review the course up to the 
      point where I am now. Once I finish reveiwing and taking notes on the topics. I will be back to updating the progress on the lab. 
  20211127
  15. I've finished going through the Paul Hill Course on Active Directory and will now be getting back to configuring my network domain. For the moment
  my plans are to finish with the configuration of the Windows devices in this network and get them up to the place where the course leaves off. I may come back
  the linux devices, but for the time being I will leave those shut down. 
  16. Taking snapshots of all devices prior to doing any work since it has been a while since a snapshot was taken
  17. Upon Bootup it looks as though I will need to install updates. 
      A. Domain Controller updates
          1. KB2267602
          2. KB5007192
          2. KB890830
          4. KB4052623
      B. Restarted Domain controller to apply changes. 
  18. My next action will be to enable Roaming profiles in my domain.
      A. In server Manager I went to File and Storage Services
      B. Selected Shares in the left column. 
      C. In the Share window, I right clicked (in empty space) and selected New Share. 
      D. Selected SMB Share - Quick and hit Next. 
      E. Selected my domain controller domainctl-01 and selected c:\ drive as that is the only partitioned drive on this at the moment
      chose Next. 
      F. Share name will be RoamingUserProfiles$
      G. Under Confgiure settings I selected Enable access-based Enumeration, Allow Caching of share, and Encrypt data access. 
      H. Under Specify permissions to control access. I went into Customize Permissions. 
          1. Chose to Diable Inheritance > Convert inherited permissions into explicit permissions on this object. 
          2. I removed any user that was not SYSTEM, Administrators, and CREATOR OWNER. 
      I. Opened the Active Directory Users and Computers and created a group under my Domain.local named "Roaming Profile Users"
          1. I added my admin account to this group this account had been created previously in testing the desktop background 
          policy for admin and normal users (see Step 8). 
      J. I added the "Roaming Profile Users" to the permissions that had begun to be configured above in part 18 - H. 
      K. I removed the basic permissions, wen to Show Advanced permissions I have the following options selected: List folder/read
      data and Create Folders/Append data. 
      L. I selected "Only apply these permissions to objects and/or containers within this container"
      M. Completed the share creation. 
      N. Network Path for this share is: 
      
   
          
          
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
